Germany's car industry is a vital part of its economy with links to government that go back decades how this world renowned motor industry navigates the challenges ahead could tell you more than you think about the future . the industry has proved of Bellwether for the country's future prospects . the car sector represents around 18 of GDP in the world . it's crucial to the future of the car industry and its future . that industrial model could be under threat after over half a century of global dominance german car makers are losing ground . there's a fear that Germany could have become too reliant on the Chinese market for the past 16 years . the fear of putting all of your eggs into the Chinese basket might leave you exposed to some of the ill Winds of geopolitics and geoeconomics that might be heading Germany in Europe's way in the coming years there is a strong sense that Germany's China policy is going to have to be recalibrated basically on pretty much every single front Germany will face the same challenge as its car industry how ring digitalization this is not traditionally a country that has been closely associated with digital innovation . it's going to be a big challenge across the whole range of domains we look at car makers . only one in three german companies have a central digital strategy just eight years ago . car industry is a microcosm for how the country will need to radically shift traditional forms of power . a race to go Electric Mobility is Oliver zipsa took over as CEO of BMW in 2019 . mate change has forced this shift to a Greener future but it was American not German engineering that first realized it an electric car can be the best car in the world . an early investor in electric technology BMW has now fallen behind rivals in the e-car market . e only car company that thinks the industry should be selling fewer cars their approach could upend the industry and their ethos is emblematic of a new way of German thinking we see ourselves as a Mobility service provider . a whole new approach on how we think Mobility should look like in the future small companies like Sono have the vision for a Greener future but Germany's politics may make it hard to realize one of the challenges that you're going to see in Germany is that the next coalition is probably going to be Germany's new leader should plan for a Workforce in need of upskilling [Music] we're going to have a massive ramp up of jobs in the battery manufacturing sector . a huge demand for coders to digital skills and competent decline in the demand for engineering skills that we've seen . as China's mic grows Germany will have to be more careful about who it gets into bed . a lot of people think that Germany isn't really ready and that it will need to act quite quickly across a whole range of domains in order to meet these challenges head on thanks for watching to read the economist's assessment of Germany's future . ibe is a u.s.-based company based in london . i belgium and syria 